--
Name: Users Are the Best Feature
Slug: users-are-the-best-feature
Summary: 
--
<p>As an engineer I like to talk about the features of a product. I talk about the product’s implementation and how it was built. I get excited about the internal workings. I have spent days of my life working on features that were never used. I operated under a mental framework that users came from outside and were external to the product. I was concerned with building the product. The users would be there when I was done. So I spent most of my time heads down writing code.</p><blockquote>So I spent most of my time heads down writing code.</blockquote><p>During college I spent a whole summer internship building an automated test case generation program for network router configurations. While building that product I only did one session with the engineers I expected to use the product. It was a presentation late in the summer. I wrote no documentation.</p><p>The program was never used after I went back to school. I am sure this is a tale that is familiar to many in the software community. Spend months of time to build something that once completed is immediately scrapped.</p><blockquote>The program was never used after I went back to school.</blockquote><p>It is a cautionary tale of building without user feedback and not building usage along with building the product. At the time I told myself: the company had problems; it was their fault they couldn't see the value in the tooling I built.</p><p>Now, I have come to realize: users are a feature. They are the best feature. With users a product is alive and useful. If I want users then I need to spend time working on that feature.</p><blockquote>Users are a feature. They are the best feature. With users a product is alive and useful.</blockquote><p>There are several ways to work on the users feature. Whether I spend time acquiring, educating, activating, retaining, supporting, scaling or nurturing them, I need to do it with the same intentionality and focus as I work on any other feature. Again, users are a feature. And, they are the best, most important, and hardest feature there is.</p><p>‍</p><p>So you agree? Great! </p><p>‍</p><h4>What is next?</h4><p>How do we magically "get" users? Where is the “hello world” for user acquisition? Where is the “npm init” for this feature?</p><p>Well this post series is an attempt to catalogue the specific tactics and actions that have worked for me.</p><p>‍</p><h4>Posts in this series:</h4><ul><li>Users: Going from 0 to 1 (coming soon)</li><li>Users: Going from 1 to 10 (coming soon)</li><li>Users: Going from 10 to 100 (coming soon)</li></ul><p>‍</p><h4>Resources</h4><p>Other people have great write ups on what might work in general, current favorites:</p><ul><li><a href="https://www.goodreads.com/pt/book/show/24693635-traction">Traction: How Any Startup Can Achieve Explosive Customer Growth</a> (book on channels)</li><li><a href="https://www.first1000.co/">First 1000</a> (substack of case studies)</li><li>Which others?</li></ul><p>‍</p>
